docs/_pages/research.md, before:

---
title: Research
layout: single
classes: wide
permalink: /research/
author_profile: true
---
## Numerical methods for Stokes flow
In a number of interesting biological applications, viscous forces are several orders of magnitude greater than inertial forces. For these situations, modelers use the Stokes equations to describe the fluid dynamics. I have been working primarily on an extension to the method of regularized Stokeslets that would allow for improved accuracy of the method when simulating the motion due to forces distributed on 2D surfaces in Stokes flow.

## Modeling weak inertia in Stokes flow 
Typically, models of fluid dynamics at the microscale neglect all inertial terms. The result of this is the Stokes equations (see above.) An interesting question is "what happens when there is a time scale different from the derived characteristic time scale of the fluid motion?" For example, the time period of one cilia beat may differ from the characteristic time scale of the fluid. We have been interested in modeling situations where this difference is significant enough that it is appropriate to use the unsteady Stokes equations. In this case, the inertia of the fluid plays a role, but it is still much weaker than the viscosity of the fluid. Even so, the incorporation of this "weak inertia" may significantly change the dynamics of models that instead use the steady Stokes equations.

Commit message:

research updated for arxiv/dissertation links

docs/_pages/research.md, after:

---
title: Research
layout: single
classes: wide
permalink: /research/
author_profile: true
---
## Academic work
#Preprint
[*Regularized Stokeslet Surfaces*](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.14470),Dana Ferranti and Ricardo Cortez, submitted for review.
#Dissertation
[*Regularized Stokeslet Surfaces and a Coupled Oscillator System in Stokes Flow*](http://libproxy.tulane.edu:2048/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/dissertations-theses/regularized-stokeslet-surfaces-coupled-oscillator/docview/2849747811/se-2?accountid=14437)

## Numerical methods for Stokes flow
In a number of interesting biological applications, viscous forces are several orders of magnitude greater than inertial forces. For these situations, modelers use the Stokes equations to describe the fluid dynamics. For the first part of my dissertation, I worked on an extension to the method of regularized Stokeslets that would allow for improved accuracy of the method when simulating the motion due to forces distributed on 2D surfaces in Stokes flow.

## Coupled oscillators in Stokes flows
The second part of my dissertation concerned the analysis of a coupled oscillator model in Stokes flow. The oscillators were spheres which moved due to an external forcing from a spring-like system. Their motion was coupled through the fluid. This kind of model has been analyzed before in the literature (see [here](https://www.pnas.org/doi/full/10.1073/pnas.0912455107)). We showed that the in-phase state can be made unstable through the introduction of either an additional elastic coupling between the oscillators, or by introducing "weak inertia" by modeling the fluid with the unsteady Stokes equations.
